# CS-340-Client-Server-Development



How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?

Answer: I tend to write maintainable programs by keeping my logic very straight forward and not too circuitous when it comes to writing code. In this I mean that I could try to get "fancy" and write something that is very difficult to follow that only I understand, but it means nothing to others that can't follow it or my logic for writing in that style. When I wrote for the CRUD python module, my primary thought was "how do I make this adaptable to multiple different styles of programs without making it too complicated?". This ended up being advantageous as I wrote the widgets since the logic for the module was very basic and did mostly rudimentary things that any program of this style would need. This allowed for greater variance within the DASH application itself. In the future, I am hoping to adapt this module to a larger scale project.



How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?

Answer: As a computer scientist, I believe there are many ways to appropriately approach any problem or challenge. The way that I find most advantageous for me is to layout a series of tasks and steps in order to reach completion of any project or problem. Within these steps, I am able to further specify time needs and breakdown what I need to work through in order to be successful in any given scenario, whether that be extensive research or asking appropriate questions to clarify needs, there is no one way to go about solving a problem. My approach to this project was largely research initially. I was stuck for a good chunk of time in how to get this to work and do what I needed it to do, as I struggle greatly with identifying how to go about certain aspects of large-scale projects. It was only during that being stuck portion of time that I was able to properly identify my own deficiencies and determine what aspects I needed to research and work more in-depth on. I think if anything, this experience has taught me to reach out for assistance sooner, when I am in need of it. In the future, I would likely reference my work in this database as I move forward on other databases.



What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?

Answer: This is a very loaded question. Computer scientists at their core are problem solvers and open-minded thinkers. We work through identifying needs to aid others, whether for monetary or humanitarian gain. Whatever the reason, this is important for the advancement of everything as we continue to progress in a world of the IOT and look to always move forward. As this pertains to the project and helping a company, the goal here while monetary for the company hired, was mostly humanitarian for Grazioso Salvare. The work done on this project would likely aid in the rescue of many human lives and reduce the amount of animal euthanasia due to a lack of "purpose". The work done here also helps keep companies like Grazioso Salvare more topically relevant in their respective fields, in that they are brought to the forefront of this topic with a more reliable and efficient way to go about business.
